OauthBearer validation filter (#1195)
kroxylicious/kroxylicious: docs/available-filters/oauthbearer/oauthbearer.adoc

= OAUTHBEARER pre-validation

== What is it?

OauthBearer filter enables a validation on the JWT token received from client before forwarding it to upstream.

If the token is not validated, then the request is short-circuited.
It permits to reduce resource consumption on the upstream when a client send too many invalid SASL requests.

There are two steps to using the filter.

1. <<Configuring virtual clusters>>
2. Configuring the filter within Kroxylicious.

=== Configuring the filter within Kroxylicious.

[source, yaml]
----
filters:
  - type: OauthBearer
    config:
      jwksEndpointUrl: https://oauth/JWKS   #<1>
      jwksEndpointRefreshMs: 3600000        #<2>
      jwksEndpointRetryBackoffMs: 100       #<3>
      jwksEndpointRetryBackoffMaxMs: 10000  #<4>
      scopeClaimName: scope                 #<5>
      subClaimName: sub                     #<6>
----

> <1> The OAuth/OIDC provider URL from which the provider's JWKS (JSON Web Key Set) can be retrieved

Reviewer: I assume you forget to define the `<2>` ... `<6>`?

Author: Yes, still in progress :)

= OAUTHBEARER pre-validation

== What is it?

OauthBearer filter enables a validation on the JWT token received from client before forwarding it to cluster.

If the token is not validated, then the request is short-circuited.

> It permits to reduce resource consumption on the cluster when a client sends too many invalid SASL requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It reduces resource consumption on the cluster when a client sends too many invalid SASL requests.
```
```suggestion
It permits to reduce resource consumption on the cluster when a client sends too many invalid SASL requests.
```
